>> Burke Holland: After ten years of
working with git, here's what I know.
Git clone, git ad.git commit and git push.
That's it.
And I know that in a worst
case scenario git push-F.
Now, what I've realized is that most
developers are kind of like I am.
They don't really understand the ins and
outs of git because it's complicated.
I think there's a course here at Frontend
Masters just on Git by my co-worker Nina
which I should probably watch
to broaden my Git knowledge.
But as it stands,
I'm not very functional with Git.
So I say that to say
that if that's you and
you feel that way, that's totally fine.
Lots of us feel that way.
You're in good company.
And so what I wanna do in this last
section is just show you how you can use
VS code to work with your source control.
And I wanna show you just some common
workflows that you can stick to.
So you don't have to
worry about rebasing and
cherry picking on all this other stuff.
You just sort of stick to the basics here.
So the first thing we need to do is
we need to clone a repo into VS code.
So I have one here, just called I love
lamp, it's our simple project for
our exercise.
And to clone it, I'm just gonna grab it by
saying Clone or Download and get the URL.
In the VS code, I'm going to say Clone and
Git Clone from the command palette.
And then I'll enter the repository URL and
then it'll ask me, where do you want it?
So I'm gonna put it inside
the Start folder here.
That's the wrong exercise and
we put it in the right exercise.
Let's do exercise eight Source control,
we'll put it in here.
And then it's gonna clone it.
And then it wants to know, do you want
to add the clone, would you like to open
the clone repository or
add it to the current workspace.
I'm just gonna open it, which is gonna
give us a new window of VS code and
that project is now open
inside the VS code.
So it's opened and
we are connected to Git with this project.
So let me just show you sort of
the highlights of source control
inside of VS code.
So let's say, for instance,
that we want to change this content here,
right, this description.
And because we know how
to use multiple cursors,
we could change both of
these lines at one time.
And what we really wanna do is,
we just wanna remove this period.
We don't want that in the description.
When I do that, you'll notice that we
get a blue bar over here to the side,
that shows us that something
has been removed or changed.
And you can see the diff here,
right inline.
And if you would like to,
you can just undo directly from here.
With this button and
now we're back to where we were before.
If I was to remove one of these lines,
now we see a little triangle and
the triangle denotes that
something has been removed.
It's no longer there.
And if we expand that,
it'll show you what's been removed and
of course you can revert off of that.
Also notice that there's down and
up arrows.
So you can move between
changes in the file as well.
So let's put that back.
And then you can probably
guess if I add a line
we get a little green bar
out here in the side.
And that shows us that
something has been added.
So these are in line annotations in
your files so that you can see what's
actually been changed locally, versus
what's been changed in source control.
So let's go ahead and
remove this line here.
And I'm gonna go ahead and
let's go back and take these periods off.
I'm gonna save.
And when we click Save, we'll now have
an item over here in our activity bar
that's on our source
control activity bar item.
And we can open the source
control view with Ctrl+Shift+G.
Now this is one of the only shortcuts that
I think is the same on Windows and Mac.
So Ctrl+Shift+G opens that view.
And we can see inside our index file.
If we click on the index file
we can see we get a diff view so
we can see what's been changed here.
It's these lines.
And we can see that here and
it also highlights and
shows us that this was removed.
So we can see exactly what's been changed.
>> Burke Holland: If we click this
plus button here, we stage the change.
This is the same as git add and if we come
up here to the top and put a message in,
we can say, fixing the description.
And then you can press Cmd or Ctrl + Enter
and now you have performed a commit.
Now, the next thing you need to do
is you need to push it up to GitHub.
And the way that you would do that,
you can actually hit the ellipsis up here,
you're gonna say Push.
Or you can come down here and click this.
This is a sync down here.
The difference between a push and
a sync is that a push just pushes,
a sync does a pull and
then it does a push.
So in other words, if you' pull and
you've got conflicts,
it will stop you on the push and
say, whoa you can't do that.
So the sync is a better
option just specifically for
that work flow instead of the push.
Although when you try to push
you're gonna find out the hard way.
So I'm just gonna go ahead and
click the button and
that's gonna push my change up to GitHub
and it will be reflected in my repository.
So here's another very common workflow.
You have made a change,
>> Burke Holland: Like this.
And then you go in and you add it and
you're like,
>> Burke Holland: Okay?
And then you commit it and you're like,
crap, I don't wanna do that.
I need to add another
change to this commit or
this is not what I wanted to commit.
And this is part of the place
where people are like,
now I don't know what to do
from the command line, okay?
In VS code it's just as simple
as saying undo last commit.
And then if don't you want it staged,
just unstage it.
And you're back to where you were, right?
No harm no foul.
Another thing that people do a lot is
they'll make a commit like this, and
then they will do a pull and they'll
have conflicts or something like that.
Or what they wanna do is they wanna
revert back to what they had before.
So the way you do that is
you can stash your changes.
So what we'll do is we'll just say,
up here and we'll say stash, like this.
Let's see, sorry,
let's undo the last command.
>> Burke Holland: All right, so
these are our changes, so let's stash.
And anything you can do from that ellipsis
you can do from the command palette.
All right, stash message,
maybe, not sure yet, okay?
And now the changes are stashed.
So to get them back,
you wanna pop the stash,
you wanna get it back off the stash,
so we're gonna say, pop stash,
git pop stash, right,
on master, maybe, not just yet.
And boom, you're back.
Now these are things that
you can do from the Git CLI.
They're all very doable, very easy.
Not say easy things, but
very common things to do, but
I can never remember what the commands
are, I don't know about you.
I can't remember how to stash and
pop things, but
the VS code makes it a lot easier.
Another thing that's quite
a bit easier is branching.
So we can create a new branch here
by just clicking on master and
saying, create a new branch.
And let's call this fix description, okay?
And now I'm on the fix description branch.
Now, let's say in fix description,
I come in here and
I'm another developer and
I'm like, that's not right.
I've seen this movie.
I know how this goes.
This is a I ate a big red candle.
I love lamp.
If you've seen Anchorman, hopefully this
reference should make some description.
So you've fixed the description and
now you want to commit this back.
So let's go to our index file here.
It will show you your changes.
Get it right.
Let's go ahead and commit that.
So now we've committed.
So let's go back to our master branch.
Master.
And we're on our master branch and
let's just say on the master branch,
we say you know what?
I kinda liked it with feeling.
It's simple, it conveys that I care.
Let's leave it like that.
So I'm gonna save that.
And then I'm gonna go ahead and
commit this as well.
And I'm gonna say,
say it like you mean it.
>> Burke Holland: Okay and
now what I'm gonna do is,
let's just say somebody else
has got fixed description and
I'm somebody else has
done a fixed description,
well we merge that branch in.
So we can merge by opening
command pallet and saying merge.
Merge branch.
And we're gonna say, fix description.
And right away, VS Code's gonna tell us,
you got a merge conflict.
Now, the reason we have a merge
conflict is that we have two people
that have changed the code outside
of the origin, outside of upstream.
And Git cannot reconcile it doesn't
know which one of these we want.
Both of these could be valid changes.
And so if you've used Git before,
in outside or in a text editor,
it puts this in your file which
is hard to work with, all right?
So you have files that now
have characters in them.
The source control has inserted
characters into your file.
VS code provides a really nice view for
working with these changes.
So we can accept the current change,
which is what we've got on master.
Or we could accept the incoming change or
we could accept both changes if
you're a person that doesn't like to
take sides, you can accept both changes.
And we can even compare the changes,
which is gonna give us a diff.
And then we can start
a Live Share session as well.
So Live Share, which we're not gonna get
into today is a collaboration tool for
VS code that allows two people or
three or four or
five to work in the same instance at once.
So maybe you and I would like to
collaborate, instead of me walking
over starting a Skype call,
we just connect via Live Share.
So what this does is,
you start a Live Share session.
It starts a session, and then I can
look and say who made this change?
Who did this?
And then can you get on
this Live Share session and
take a look at this with me and
explain why you made this change?
So I'm going to accept
the incoming change.
Now, we can go ahead and stage this.
Yeah, I saved it already.
Didn't I?
I didn't.
Staged better description.
Hit Enter and then we can push.